I aimed to create a portfolio website to showcase what I have learned in web development. The website had to feature a chat application. I decided to utilize this as a communication method with myself. 

The color theme remains consistent throughout the website. The colors were chosen due to their accessibility. The colors have a contrast between them to make them stand out from each other, these colors also work well when in dark mode. The fonts were also chosen with accessibility in mind. The fonts are simple but bold. 

On developing the website I started with the Contact page. This page has my email address for people to ask further questions about my work. It also is the page that includes the chat application. This allows users of the website to be able to ask questions more easily and gain a response quicker. This can be useful for getting involved in projects quickly. The contact page also has a frequently asked questions section that was implemented using Javascript buttons, these keep the webpage clean and stop an overwhelming amount of emails or messages. This webpage also includes a brief mention of working hours.

I then moved on to coding the home page. This page briefly introduces me and clearly shows navigation to all the different pages where the user can find more. There are many features to enhance this webpage, including a photo carousel to display a range of photos concisely. It also includes an embedded map, which allows the user to explore Aberdeen without having to change the website. The webpage also features two hyperlinks. One is to navigate between web pages and take the user to the About page efficiently as well as the nav bar, and the other is to allow the user to open their default email client and send an email easily.

Lastly was the 'About' page. This page uses bootstrap cards to achieve its design. These allow for the information to be easier to read as it is split up. Within the cards, there are hyperlinks and images. The main feature on this page is the accordion items. These were used to keep the qualifications section clean and organized as these only reveal the wanted information at any time. 

Some challenges faced when implementing the above included general syntax errors and the notification area. I experienced many easy-fix errors while coding my website, these were identified and solved upon running the website. When having a friend look over the website we established that the photo carousel was affecting the visual appeal of the website due to not matching the color theme and covering the picture behind. These have been updated to better match the color theme and now include a border to help it stand out from the background image however, the captions still cover a substantial amount of the image. In the future, with more time I would figure out a better way to display captions alongside the images. The notification area has taken me a lot of trial and error. I then realized that I was trying to do the client-end code within the HTML instead of within the client.js. Resolving this has now allowed me to get users joining and leaving notifications. I still continue to struggle with getting a typing notification and in future, would need more time to be able to resolve this error.


